[Music]
hey there
even though cellphones have dramatically
changed since the 90s loads of myths
surrounding them are still the same the
more megapixels the phone's camera has
the better images you get the dimmer the
screen is it's better for your eyes over
night charges harms the battery
smartphones can float now I made that
last one up smartphone myths are
numerous and persistent so let's pop
some of these dubious bubbles shall we
number one cell phones can start a fire
at a gas station no one will argue that
petroleum gas is highly flammable and
can be started by a spark the spark can
come from a lighter matches or static
electricity but not your smartphone the
only way the device can start a fire is
if it has a defective battery which is
pretty much unlikely there's no evidence
of something like that ever happening
why cell phones are banned at gas
stations is probably because they can
and do distract drivers from the task at
hand and being careless and inattentive
while fueling your car can lead to
serious accidents - charging a
smartphone overnight damages the device
there is a valid reason why your cell
phone is called smart thanks to the
built-in protection it knows when it's
supposed to stop charging and if a
decade ago overcharging could indeed
damage the battery you don't need to
worry about such an outcome these days
3 if you've dropped your smartphone in
water put it in rice many people believe
that the moisture loving grains will
absorb water out of all the nooks and
crannies of their soaked foam but here's
the problem
rice doesn't soak up just any liquid
that happens to be nearby to absorb
water rice grains have to be in direct
contact with it even worse when rice
starts get mixed up with liquid it
produce a paste that can gum up your
smartphone's of delicate electronics
experiments showed that after 48 hours
where I still manage to absorb only 13%
of the moisture out of the phones by the
time the devices got completely dry
corrosion had already damaged their
fragile electronic insides so about the
best you can get here is smartphone
sushi but I can't imagine it tasting
very good
for your phone can cook an egg this myth
became popular after a viral internet
article lots of people believe that
radio waves a cell phone emits were so
powerful that you could boil an egg by
placing it between two devices well bad
news for the lovers of unconventional
cooking methods the amount of radiation
as cellphone emits is so small that you
would need 7,000 smart phones to boil an
egg and even this number is very
approximate since no one has checked it
yet five a smartphone can demagnetize
your credit cards never keep your
smartphone together with your credit
card you've probably heard this
recommendation and not only once your
gadget does have a magnetic field but
it's so weak that it won't affect your
bank cards in any way a fridge magnet on
the other hand might card your credit
card to stop working six magnets can
delete data from your smartphone if it's
the most powerful magnet on earth
probably also if you keep your info on
floppy disks and tapes a modern-day
smartphone impossible magnets can do no
permanent damage to your phone
there are even several tiny magnets
inside your smartphone used for specific
functions modern phones have solid-state
drives that don't need magnetism for
storing data what a magnet can do is
interfere with your phone's compass you
might say ah I don't need it anyway but
then your navigation apps like GPS and
all kinds of maps won't be able to
determine your position and game
applications won't understand your
phone's orientation 7 let your phone's
battery drain completely before
recharging one of the worst things you
can do to your phone's battery is to
keep draining it every lithium ion
battery has a certain number of charge
cycles which is running the battery down
from 100 to 0% modern phone batteries
have about 400 to 500 cycles and if you
let your battery drain every day your
phone won't last longer than a year and
a half
some experts recommend draining your
phone's battery completely only if your
device quits working at 20% charge then
emptying the battery might help you
recalibrate it's level sensor 8 the more
megapixels your camera has the better
photos you'll get most people are sure
that the number of megapixels is the
best indicator of how good your pictures
are going to be what they don't know is
that not the number of megapixels but
their quality plays the main role here a
12 megapixel camera can be way better
than a 16 megapixel one high quality
pixels are also larger and fewer of them
have to be crammed into a single picture
9 4G uses more data than 3G
since the 4G connection is faster most
people believe that it uses more data
but whatever connection you use five
megabytes of data is still 5 megabytes
of data with 4G you'll just need less
time to download it the only reason why
4G each your internet package too soon
is that your downloads are faster and
you use more data in a shorter period of
time 10 the dimmer the screen is the
better after all that saves your battery
and that's a good thing right well your
optician will disagree if your
smartphone screen is too dim you'll have
to strain your eyes and even though it's
unlikely to lead to any permanent damage
you'll get headaches and tired eyes if
your screen brightness is higher than
50% though you should keep it down a bit
an over bright screen can cause lots of
short-term I use from irritation to dry
eyes and strain 11 bitter specifications
mean better performance while buying a
brand new phone you expect to enjoy fast
speed long battery life and other perks
but in reality even if a phone has great
specs on paper its performance may not
be so satisfying depending on its
application capability build quality and
other factors 12 smartphones emit
harmful radiation
modern cellphones give off
electromagnetic waves the same waves
make your radio work the e/m radiation
frequency your smartphone emits is
completely safe for you this fact has
been proven by thousands of published
articles placing the topic of phone
radiation among the most researched
thirteen if you make a call while your
phone is charging it may catch fire
there have been several cases when
device has started burning but it
happened because of low quality
batteries suspicious secondhand chargers
and dubious charging methods for example
trying to charge a phone from two high
voltage lines if you have original
batteries and chargers in the way that
they should be used you can use a
charging phone in any way you want
including making calls it'll just take
longer for the phone to charge that's
all 14 the larger your phone's battery
capacity is the longer it will serve the
battery life mostly depends on how much
power your device consumes that's why if
you have two smart phones with the same
battery capacity the one with more
efficient electronics and screen will
last longer on a single charge how you
use your phone also influences battery
life playing games taking photos using
social media drains your battery a mile
a minute 15 close background apps to
boost your phone's performance at first
sight it sounds very logical the more
apps your phone's running the more
battery it's burning but in reality both
Android and iOS can multitask and
background apps aren't running they're
just ready for a fast relaunch and don't
consume a lot of energy by closing
background applications you waste more
battery because your phone has to spend
more resources on opening an app than on
relaunching it 16 using incognito mode
will protect your privacy privacy issues
are on the rise these days it makes more
and more people use the private or
incognito mode while browsing the
Internet to keep their personal
information safe it's believed to be a
secure way to protect your data
the private mode does prevent your
browser from storing your cookies
passwords and other information but it
doesn't equal an encrypted connection
and other people for example internet
service providers can see your browsing
history Plus no incognito mode will
protect your device from malware for
that you need an anti-virus oh and
finally if you like my smartphone sushi
idea tell me all about your recipes in
the comments hey if you learned
something new today then give the video
a like and share it with a friend and
here are some other videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life
[Music]